carried the short distance from occupied
East Jerusalem to rala what Christians
call the Holy Fire Burns bright but the
mood here is dark in the Cradle of
Christianity it's never been harder to
worship
freely we used to go to Jerusalem every
year but this year we have no peace of
mind we are not in the
mood it's a sad holiday because of the
war there's no celebrations like
previous years we Palestinians are sad
because our land is under occupation our
land is Holy and it has to have peace
with the war going on in Gaza and our
situation being under occupation this
year
is it's worse than ever it's it's the
worst year in the past 7 75 years
Eastern Orthodox Christians believe the
flame comes every Easter from a spark
sent miraculously from Heaven to where
Jesus was buried after crucifixion now
the Church of the Holy SE in occupied
East
Jerusalem it's then carried to churches
across the world but for those who live
just a 30-minute drive from that church
the realities of Life under Israel's
occupation mean getting there has never
been more difficult permissions
checkpoints and the roads it's so
difficult for people to go and be
present in Jerusalem without checkpoints
people would come together from all the
towns and to celebrate especially at the
Church of the Holy
Seiler celebrations were replaced with
prayers for the Palestinians in Gaza and
for a
ceasefire now in normal years there's a
large procession through the center of
rala to bring the flame to the church
here but this year it's been a much more
paired down event there's no real
appetite to celebrate Bernard Smith Al
jazer rala in the occupied West Bank
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer